links.md, before:

## Session Links
This is an indexed copy of links from each of the sessions.<br/>
[Try IBM Cloud Private Today](http://ibm.biz/ICP-DTE)<br/>
[IBM Cloud Private homepage](http://ibm.biz/ICP-Home)<br/>
[Garage Method](http://ibm.biz/ICP-Garage)<br/>
[Digital Technical Enablement](http://ibm.biz/ICP-DTE)<br/>

### Installing IBM Cloud Private
[Offline or Air-Gap Install on Medium](https://medium.com/ibm-cloud/ibm-cloud-private-offline-installation-eb730ae13bfc)<br/>

### Helm Basics
[Installing Helm](https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/#installing-helm)<br/>
[Option: Download and Install Helm Release](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/releases)
[Option: Knowledge Center for 2103 Helm](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSBS6K_2.1.0.3/app_center/create_helm_cli.html)<br/>

### Creating Helm Charts
[Example Chart Templates](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/)<br/>
[Helm examples](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/tree/master/docs/examples)<br/>
[Stable Helm charts](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/master/stable)<br/>
[Golang templates](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template)<br/>
[Sprig template library](https://godoc.org/github.com/Masterminds/sprig)<br/>
[Learn Helm from the Community](https://docs.helm.sh/)<br/>
[Getting Started Authoring Helm Charts](https://deis.com/blog/2016/getting-started-authoring-helm-charts)<br/>
[How to Create Your First Helm Chart](https://docs.bitnami.com/kubernetes/how-to/create-your-first-helm-chart)<br/>
[Packaged Kubernetes Deployments – Writing a Helm Chart](https://www.influxdata.com/packaged-kubernetes-deployments-writing-helm-chart)<br/>

### Kubernetes Basics
[Kubernetes Tutorial](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/)<br/>
[Introduction to container orchestration](https://www.exoscale.ch/syslog/2016/07/26/container-orch/)<br/>
[TNS Research: The Present State of Container Orchestration](https://thenewstack.io/tns-research-present-state-container-orchestration/)<br/>
[Large-scale cluster management at Google with Borg](https://research.google.com/pubs/pub43438.html)<br/>

### IBM Cloud Private Architecture
[SoundCloud for Prometheus](http://soundcloud.com/)<br/>
[Prometheus open community](https://prometheus.io/community)<br/>
[Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch)<br/>
[Logstash](https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash)<br/>

### Multi Cloud Manager - Architecture Addendum
There are no links embedded in this presentation.

### Network
[NGINX as a proxy node start here](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)<br/>

### Backup and Recovery
[The CASE repository for ICP Backup and Recovery](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup)<br/>
[Step-by-step instructions on how to back up and restore etcd](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup/blob/master/docs/etcd.md)<br/>
[Taking component snapshots](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup/blob/master/docs/components.md)<br/>
[etcd snapshot](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup/blob/master/docs/etcd.md#etcd-restore-on-multi-master-icp-configuration)<br/>
[Backup and restore the Docker registry](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup/blob/master/docs/registry.md)<br/>
[Optional instructions for MariaDB](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup/blob/master/docs/mariadb.md)<br/>

### Performance and Sizing
[CASE ICP Sizing Best Practices](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/refarch-privatecloud/blob/master/Sizing.md)<br/>
[NGINX as a proxy node start here](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)<br/>
[Journey to 1000 Nodes on Medium](https://medium.com/ibm-cloud/journey-to-1000-nodes-for-ibm-cloud-private-5294138047d5)<br/>

### Storage
There are no links embedded in this presentation.

### Vulnerability Advisor
Find most information available on the ICP Knowledge Center [here is the link for 2.1.0.3](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSBS6K_2.1.0.3/manage_cluster/vuln_advisor.html)<br/>

Commit message:

added shortened url for icp backup and restore

links.md, after:

## Session Links
This is an indexed copy of links from each of the sessions.<br/>
[Try IBM Cloud Private Today](http://ibm.biz/ICP-DTE)<br/>
[IBM Cloud Private homepage](http://ibm.biz/ICP-Home)<br/>
[Garage Method](http://ibm.biz/ICP-Garage)<br/>
[Digital Technical Enablement](http://ibm.biz/ICP-DTE)<br/>

### Installing IBM Cloud Private
[Offline or Air-Gap Install on Medium](https://medium.com/ibm-cloud/ibm-cloud-private-offline-installation-eb730ae13bfc)<br/>

### Helm Basics
[Installing Helm](https://docs.helm.sh/using_helm/#installing-helm)<br/>
[Option: Download and Install Helm Release](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/releases)
[Option: Knowledge Center for 2103 Helm](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSBS6K_2.1.0.3/app_center/create_helm_cli.html)<br/>

### Creating Helm Charts
[Example Chart Templates](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/)<br/>
[Helm examples](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/tree/master/docs/examples)<br/>
[Stable Helm charts](https://github.com/kubernetes/charts/tree/master/stable)<br/>
[Golang templates](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template)<br/>
[Sprig template library](https://godoc.org/github.com/Masterminds/sprig)<br/>
[Learn Helm from the Community](https://docs.helm.sh/)<br/>
[Getting Started Authoring Helm Charts](https://deis.com/blog/2016/getting-started-authoring-helm-charts)<br/>
[How to Create Your First Helm Chart](https://docs.bitnami.com/kubernetes/how-to/create-your-first-helm-chart)<br/>
[Packaged Kubernetes Deployments – Writing a Helm Chart](https://www.influxdata.com/packaged-kubernetes-deployments-writing-helm-chart)<br/>

### Kubernetes Basics
[Kubernetes Tutorial](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/)<br/>
[Introduction to container orchestration](https://www.exoscale.ch/syslog/2016/07/26/container-orch/)<br/>
[TNS Research: The Present State of Container Orchestration](https://thenewstack.io/tns-research-present-state-container-orchestration/)<br/>
[Large-scale cluster management at Google with Borg](https://research.google.com/pubs/pub43438.html)<br/>

### IBM Cloud Private Architecture
[SoundCloud for Prometheus](http://soundcloud.com/)<br/>
[Prometheus open community](https://prometheus.io/community)<br/>
[Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch)<br/>
[Logstash](https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash)<br/>

### Multi Cloud Manager - Architecture Addendum
There are no links embedded in this presentation.

### Network
[NGINX as a proxy node start here](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)<br/>

### Backup and Recovery
[The CASE repository for ICP Backup and Recovery](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup) shortened to ibm.biz/iceback<br/>
[Step-by-step instructions on how to back up and restore etcd](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup/blob/master/docs/etcd.md)<br/>
[Taking component snapshots](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup/blob/master/docs/components.md)<br/>
[etcd snapshot](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup/blob/master/docs/etcd.md#etcd-restore-on-multi-master-icp-configuration)<br/>
[Backup and restore the Docker registry](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup/blob/master/docs/registry.md)<br/>
[Optional instructions for MariaDB](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-backup/blob/master/docs/mariadb.md)<br/>

### Performance and Sizing
[CASE ICP Sizing Best Practices](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/refarch-privatecloud/blob/master/Sizing.md)<br/>
[NGINX as a proxy node start here](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)<br/>
[Journey to 1000 Nodes on Medium](https://medium.com/ibm-cloud/journey-to-1000-nodes-for-ibm-cloud-private-5294138047d5)<br/>

### Storage
There are no links embedded in this presentation.

### Vulnerability Advisor
Find most information available on the ICP Knowledge Center [here is the link for 2.1.0.3](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSBS6K_2.1.0.3/manage_cluster/vuln_advisor.html)<br/>
