README.md, before:

# IBM Cloud Private Administration Bootcamp
Welcome to the IBM Cloud Private Administration Bootcamp: A comprehensive bootcamp that teaches technical teams the infrastructure, architecture, administration and configuration of IBM's Hybrid Cloud Solution.

This course is intended for: <br>
* Solution architects
* Infrastructure architects
* System administrators

This course has the following objectives: <br>
* Discuss the role of Kubernetes and the associated projects such as Docker, Helm, Istio, Calico and Cloud Foundry in the IBM Cloud Private solution
* Learn how to install, configure, and deploy a Hybrid Cloud Solution on your infrastructure
* Discuss and describe the infrastructure, architecture, features, and service catalog of an Hybrid Cloud solution
* Understand the additional services and content IBM has used to complete the solution

The course is divided into labs <br> <img src="https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-admin-bootcamp/blob/master/labs/images/lab-icon.png" alt="labs" width="50"/> <br> and presentations <br> <img src="https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-admin-bootcamp/blob/master/labs/images/presentation-icon.png" alt="presentations" width="50"/>

## Agendas
The course has been designed for both four and five day delivery: <br>
* [4 Day Agenda](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-admin-bootcamp/blob/master/4-day-agenda.md)
* [5 Day Agenda](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-admin-bootcamp/blob/master/5-day-agenda.md)

Commit message:

Added reference to links MD

README.md, after:

# IBM Cloud Private Administration Bootcamp
Welcome to the IBM Cloud Private Administration Bootcamp: A comprehensive bootcamp that teaches technical teams the infrastructure, architecture, administration and configuration of IBM's Hybrid Cloud Solution.

This course is intended for: <br>
* Solution architects
* Infrastructure architects
* System administrators

This course has the following objectives: <br>
* Discuss the role of Kubernetes and the associated projects such as Docker, Helm, Istio, Calico and Cloud Foundry in the IBM Cloud Private solution
* Learn how to install, configure, and deploy a Hybrid Cloud Solution on your infrastructure
* Discuss and describe the infrastructure, architecture, features, and service catalog of an Hybrid Cloud solution
* Understand the additional services and content IBM has used to complete the solution

The course is divided into labs <br> <img src="https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-admin-bootcamp/blob/master/labs/images/lab-icon.png" alt="labs" width="50"/> <br> and presentations <br> <img src="https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-admin-bootcamp/blob/master/labs/images/presentation-icon.png" alt="presentations" width="50"/>

All of the links referenced in the presentations [can be found here](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-admin-bootcamp/blob/master/links.md)<br/>

## Agendas
The course has been designed for both four and five day delivery: <br>
* [4 Day Agenda](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-admin-bootcamp/blob/master/4-day-agenda.md)
* [5 Day Agenda](https://github.com/ibm-cloud-architecture/icp-admin-bootcamp/blob/master/5-day-agenda.md)
